**Configuring Advanced Firewall Features via Sensei (Zenarmor)**

In this comprehensive lab, I delved into the installation,
configuration, and overview of the Sensei moduleâ€”a potent plugin
enhancing OPNsense firewall capabilities. Sensei introduces
next-generation features such as Application Control, Network Analytics,
and TLS Inspection, expanding the firewall's functionalities beyond
native capabilities.

**Step 1 - Install Sensei:**

I initiated the Sensei installation by clicking on the dashboard,
triggering the setup wizard. After accepting the Terms of Service and
Privacy Policy, I checked the box and proceeded. Clicking "Next," I
reached the "**Install Database & Proceed**" button, selected Deployment
Mode \#2, and added LAN and GuestNetwork to the Protected Interfaces
list. I maintained default settings and completed the wizard, ensuring
full help was enabled.

The following screenshots illustrates step 1 more:

<img src="./media/image1.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.39861in" />

<img src="./media/image2.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.00278in" />

<img src="./media/image3.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.00903in" />

<img src="./media/image4.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.00278in" />

<img src="./media/image5.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:4.97917in" />

<img src="./media/image6.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:4.97361in" />

<img src="./media/image7.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.00278in" />

<img src="./media/image8.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.02083in" />

<img src="./media/image9.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.00347in" />

<img src="./media/image10.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:5.00278in" />

**Step 2 - Startup Configuration Wizard:**

The startup configuration wizard led me through settings, deploying
Sensei in Choice \#2 deployment mode. I maintained default
configurations, moving through the wizard, and completed the setup.

Here in the following figures, I left everything at default and clicked
next for the proceeding step.

<img src="./media/image11.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:2.70347in" />

<img src="./media/image12.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:3.57639in" />

<img src="./media/image13.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:2.73889in" />

<img src="./media/image14.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:2.03472in" />

**Step 3 - Overview:**

In the Zenamor dashboard, I added and sorted charts for better
visualization. Navigating to the Policies tab, I accessed security
options. Notably, I discovered that advanced features required a paid
subscription. This is manifested in the following figures below.

<img src="./media/image15.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:3.93333in" />

<img src="./media/image16.emf"
style="width:3.65833in;height:6.01667in" />

**Step 4 - Security Configuration:**

Within the Security tab, I explored various blocking options, noting
that premium subscriptions were necessary for advanced security
features. The App Controls section allowed me to manage application
blocking. In Web Controls, I adjusted settings using a user-friendly
GUI. These are manifested in the following figures below.

<img src="./media/image17.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:4.99653in" />

<img src="./media/image18.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:4.99653in" />

<img src="./media/image19.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:3.24792in" />

<img src="./media/image20.emf" style="width:6.5in;height:1.98542in" />

<img src="./media/image21.emf"
style="width:6.45833in;height:4.11667in" />

**Conclusion Remark:**

This project, centered around the installation and configuration of the
Sensei module within OPNsense, enriched my skills in implementing
advanced firewall features. Navigating the intricacies of Sensei's
interface provided valuable insights into Application Control, Network
Analytics, and TLS Inspection. The hands-on experience enhanced my
capabilities in managing and optimizing firewall functionalities.
